The Project Gutenberg eBook of Chambers's Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art, fifth series, no. 140, vol. III, September 4, 1886
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Chambers's Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art, fifth series, no. 140, vol. III, September 4, 1886

Author: Various

Release date: June 30, 2024 [eBook #73956]

Language: English

Original publication: Edinburgh: William and Robert Chambers, 1853

Credits: Susan Skinner, Eric Hutton and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S JOURNAL OF POPULAR LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND ART, FIFTH SERIES, NO. 140, VOL. III, SEPTEMBER 4, 1886 ***





[Illustration:

CHAMBERS’S JOURNAL

OF

POPULAR

LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND ART

Fifth Series

ESTABLISHED BY WILLIAM AND ROBERT CHAMBERS, 1832

CONDUCTED BY R. CHAMBERS (SECUNDUS)

NO. 140.—VOL. III.      SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1886.      PRICE 1½_d._]




PARK PEARLS.


By the cottage, a stranger is hailed with sharp palpable hostility,
followed by a guttural sentence inwardly spoken. The watchdog pours
out his durable qualities on the intruder’s ear. To prevent any
misunderstanding, he tells, most forcibly, of the consequences of
a nearer approach. As the inmates of the hamlet are thus warned,
an unknown face gazes on him, waiting at the wicket. I love the
creature’s voice. It sounds of a home, although not mine. It hints of a
domestic circle with chubby bairns, little dumpy arms, tiny prattling
feet, dirty faces—as all children have if left to their own sweet
will—children of the woods and parks, little rural arabs—the human
world in miniature uncontrolled. The barking is incessant. A mellow
voice spreads over the grassy lawns; on the pensive air, a hollow
metallic ringing is carried out, eddying as tiny wavelets to the shore
of a tiny pool—the music of an echo, touching the high towers of the
mansion-house, rebounding to the forest edge—clear, fine, and pleasing.
The winter sunny rays moisten the crust by the gateway, and the earth
seems saturated by a shower which fell days ago—a shower of snow.
Around the open glade, a stately circle of beech and fir trees marks
the park’s outline. The day is cold and damp; the seasons hang in the
balance.

In summer here, I know a tree whereon the cushat builds, a tree of fir.
On the green soft cushion around its base the children gather needles
and pins for youthful household purposes—age reflected in infancy.
These trees are honestly Scotch, riveted to the soil; the nettle and
the thistle lower in the scale. Around the wood-pigeons’ abode, mighty
beeches extend their branches, and sycamores shelter the approach—trees
born of ancestral days, veterans of the forest; and at eventide, when
the sun is warm, carrying its fire-flame westwards, the low Coo,
coo! familiarly resounds over the park—a plaintive moaning from the
tree-top. The lark from the mossy meadow tells his tale of love and
devotion, going high above the forest shadows, revelling in the ether,
shouting vocally in the sky, making the aërial hall ring with its
joyous out-pourings—a musical day-star, a pearl from earth and the clod
paying homage at the footstool of light.

Over the emerald ground-work, a rook is seen; when the wind is high, he
courts the lee-side of the forest, and hugs the bushes on the border,
passing like a mighty rushing blast, causing the dead leaf to swirl
on the grass. Atop the fence circling the copse, the magpie sits with
piratical flashes in his eye, brooding over the stratagem required for
further business. Down to the field he goes, and over the meadow-land
on strong wing, tail floating gaily in the breeze; a gem, a pearl, a
bird of surpassing beauty, up to the fir-trees, chattering harshly,
loudly, defiantly. A continuous warble, an entertaining exhibition of
voice-power on the part of the hedge-sparrow, enlivens the bushes under
the shadow of the beeches; its capabilities of a very high order—a low,
sweet, liquid song. In a meditating mood it sits; with an inquisitive
air it looks for food under the stems. Its little nest is cosy; its
contents four blue turquoises set in a brown environment.

Cuck-oo, cuck-oo! What a mystic sound! a half-human, a legendary
echo, a resemblance half-bird, half-mammal expression; a source of
infinite conjecture, a perfume from an unseen flower. There it sits, a
brown, dark, spotted-like creature, with long arrow-like body, lengthy
ocean-steamer-formed bird, a true migrant, a sailor on the winds, a
voyager across the oceans; an outlaw, a bohemian, living by the way,
dropping its egg in the nest of some absent one, leaving the care of
its offspring to another; an ichneumon in feathers. Cuck-oo, cuck-oo!
The sound comes from the bushes out there. No! There he sits still, not
knowing he is observed. Strange bird, dweller in eternal summer climes,
hater of northern blasts; and as you reflect, he is gone down the grove
to seek his mate.

Following each other, wailing, calling, the lapwings dive, rise, and
scream again, flapping their rounded paddles—brilliant pearls of colour
touched by the sunlight. What hilarity; what gestures they cut over the
park, down the slope, and across the fields. Joyful birds, birds of
the earth and the fullness thereof. The cheerful merry notes come on
the breeze, and contain a wildness, a free, piquant taste of nature’s
highways. In spring, the notes bring with them the milkboy’s song and
the ploughman’s whistle. You feel the air refreshed; a balminess fills
the glade, seeks between the tree arms, clusters round the hedge,
reassuring the crocus and the primrose. Your heart goes out to meet
the bird, even be it unseen, as if photographed on the mind; the rural
scene within a certain range springs before the imagination, called up
afresh. All nature claps its hands in pride and ecstasy.

With a hurried Cha, cha, cha, cha! the blackbird leaves the stone
wall—a cock-bird, black as jet—to attend his lady on the park’s
surface. A rollicking sprightliness characterises his movements; his
tone is sharp, full of intricacies, hard to interpret. In autumn, when
the nests are empty, how delightful to walk through the copse—a clump
of dwarfed trees, everything in repose. The nests, the homes, the beds
of the departed little ones, rest there between the forks and amongst
the benty undergrowth, remnants of blithe mirth-making and droll
expressions. A few feathers—vivid remembrance of garments—the broken
twigs and sere leaves are toys. Singing now is in silvery strains;
before, it was golden; now restricted in its compass and its range.

The pheasant from the cover skulks hastily away, and in the sun shines
as a pearl of great price. His ruby head he cannot hide—it is too
lovely. It sets off as a coronet his kingly robes. ‘Uneasy lies the
head that wears a crown.’ An irresistible habit attends the luckless
bird; he peers from the herbage, and the sun catches the treacherous
colours, denouncing the retreat of this majestic park glory. There
is an unspeakable mellowness. Insect and bird, both are loth to
frolic; they are not now so fond of being seen, eluding the watchful
eye; contented trills are all that is now heard. Yellow, full-eared
cornfields, charged with the honey of a season, like soldiers, laden
with booty, now ‘pile their arms’ in squares and companies over the
harvest battle-field.

With the stillness of a mid-day in the park, at that moment when even
the birds are gone, the insect world vanished, there is a sudden
seeming pause. The daisy and the clover say it is the meridian, the
exact moment when the dial casts no side shadow. It resembles the
dinner-hour, the din and rattle hushed for a time. When the cuckoos
meet here in the gushing summer day, when the down-pouring of the
golden rays from the clear sky parches the pebbly brook, and curls
up the grass of the park, then the combination of pride, blitheness,
and mid-day fervour of breezes modified, refined by the park trees,
disperse in the quiet inclosure, and mingling in space with the warm
air, vanish, as it were, in an unanswerable manner.

Kittiwakes from the rocky heights wander, by the aid of their beautiful
wings, over the park round the copse, circling, screaming with angry
voice, with a majesty, an aristocratic air, no flurried haste. These
wings are seasoned by the salt of the ocean. They move over the reefs,
the shoals, the surface-swells of the landscape; but their gaze pierces
not the crest of the earth, but is thrown back tauntingly, while
their eyes search pleadingly. These water-washed pearls rest in twos
and threes, white dots on the carpet of green. The daisy, dandelion,
clover, and the tints of many grasses, cut out lovely patterns before
your eyes; the primrose makes a golden margin, the bushes raise the
edge. In the language of flowers, the surface holds communion. Above
the long rank growth on the ditch-side, the sorrel loves to dwell, and
thistles keep watch over their lowly neighbours.

A transient glimpse of a pretty bird in the depths of the bushes
rivets the attention—a redstart!—jerky, flirting beauty. This tangled
undergrowth seems a fit habitation only for the badger, or a likely
cover for the fox. That admixture of ruby and turquoise might well
adorn the scrupulously trimmed lawn before the mansion-house. Why stay
in such a sequestered nook? You are an uncommon friend. Right glad am
I to make the acquaintance of such as you, even here. How restless you
wander along the bough, your shrill note doubtless being apprehensive
of danger, away under the bushes without a parting word. A robin fills
the place—that hero of many a tale, that picture-painted creature
evolved from the reddish-tinted egg shells. His family meet him on the
broom that overhangs the bank. The earthwork has fallen, disclosing the
boughs that were once underground, appearing now like strong cables
from ship to anchor. Its home is there, behind the rootlet, and between
that and the earthen wall. At evening, puffed up, ball-formed, it
sits challenging a robin not far off in vocal speech, a ruby spot, a
blood-stained front without a scar. The notes remind you of olden days.
Something is gone, is awanting; a vagueness immeasurable borders the
song. There is a want, although he sings in language liquid and clear.
It is in harmony with the half-sleeping water babbling through the
grasses. He is a wild Red Indian, sighing, jerking, laughing, smiling
at the weather of the seasons.

Two, three! Keep still; there go the rabbits. Move your foot amongst
those dead leaves—magic, they are gone! Thud, thud! be it anger, fear,
or defiance. Thud! the very earth vibrates in harmony with the animals’
spirit. Over the entrance, on the tree-roots grow long variegated
lines of stainless white vegetation—whiter under there, against the
earth—a soft quartz in a soft rock. That sapling is dead, nipped in
its youth. Its leaves are golden, its virgin beauty was green. All
other trees are in their native garb. In its fall, its dying agony,
its roots wrenched from the soil, the earth still adhering; it had
groaning, fallen, clenched its comrade; and now petrified, its arms are
rigid, death-like. The bunnies burrow under the shelter of the upturned
sapling; but otherwise its history is wrapped in unconcern. Only the
bee, that in its flight catches the reddish glow, and halts to know the
cause. The common blue butterfly, in its diurnal flight over the park
in search of sweets, at times erects its wings, there exhibiting the
rows of matchless pearls imprinted on the border of its garment. The
wren leaves not the tree in its misfortune, but twits its plaintive
miniature trill from under the withered leaves and débris swept against
its surface, accumulating with every fresh breeze.

Again the participating musical stumble of the blackbird comes from the
tree-branch on the copse margin—a male voice, a bass, with variations
of chattering fluency. Late insects linger at the outskirts, and roam
the extent of the park. The insect hum rises from the herbage here and
there; a bee, trapped by the spider’s snare, hums, buzzing vengeance
on the fisher casting his silken net there. In the bushes, a slight
fluttering—a leaf floats unheard to the ground, to increase the mouldy
earth. The repose is broken again and again—droning beetles, and the
tingling flight of the moths fluttering around the willows at the burn.
The tawny owls hoot, throwing a weird enchantment on things adjacent,
their muffled, softened wings carrying them from view along the forest
edge. A solitary starry pearl, a snowdrop of the heavens, bursts the
crust of the empyrean—then it is night.




IN ALL SHADES.

BY GRANT ALLEN,

AUTHOR OF ‘BABYLON,’ ‘STRANGE STORIES,’ ETC. ETC.


CHAPTER XLIII.

When Nora and the doctor reached the door of Orange Grove, they found
Edward Hawthorn waiting to receive them, and the servants already busy
trying to remove as far as possible the signs of the wreck so lately
effected by the wild rioters. Several neighbouring planters, who had
come down from the hills above, stood in armed groups around the gate;
and a few mounted black constables, hastily summoned to the spot by the
fire, were helping to extinguish the smouldering ashes. Only Delgado’s
dead body lay untouched upon the sofa, stiff and motionless, for not
one of the negroes dare venture to set hands upon it; and in the room
within, Marian sat still, looking anxiously at Harry Noel’s pallid face
and livid eyelids, and his bloodstained shirt, that yet heaved faintly
and almost imperceptibly upon his broad bosom at each long slow-drawn
inspiration.

‘He is living?’ Nora asked, in a hushed voice of painful inquiry; and
Marian answered under her breath, looking up at the bluff doctor: ‘Yes;
he’s living still. He’s breathing quite regularly, though very feebly.’

As for Macfarlane, he went to work at once with the cool business-like
precision and rapidity of his practised profession, opening the
bloodstained shirt in front, and putting his hand in through the silk
vest to feel the heart that still beat faintly and evenly. ‘He’s lost
a great deal of blood, no doubt, Mrs Hawthorn,’ he said cheerily;
‘but he’s a strong man, and he’ll pull through yet; ye needn’t be too
anxious—thanks to whoever put this handkerchief around his arm. It’s a
good enough tourniquet to use on an emergency.—Was it you, Miss Dupuy,
or Mrs Hawthorn?’

A round spot of vivid colour flashed for a moment into Nora’s white
cheek as she answered quietly: ‘It was me, Dr Macfarlane!’ and then
died out again as fast as it had come, when Macfarlane’s eyes were once
more removed from her burning face.

‘Ye’re a brave lass, and no mistake,’ the doctor went on, removing the
tourniquet, and stanching the fresh flow rapidly with a proper bandage,
produced with mechanical routine from his coat pocket. ‘Well, well,
don’t be afraid about him any longer. It’s a big cut, and a deep cut,
and it’s just gone and severed a good big artery—an ugly business; but
ye’ve taken it in time; and your bandage has been most judiciously
applied; so ye may rest assured that, with a little nursing, the young
man will soon be all right again, and sound as ever. A cutlass is a
nasty weapon to get a wound from, because those nigger fellows don’t
sharpen them up to a clean edge, as they ought to do rightly, but just
hack and mutilate a man in the most outrageous and unbusiness-like
manner, instead of killing him outright like good Christians, with a
neat, sharp, workman-like incision. But we’ll pull him through—we’ll
pull him through yet, I don’t doubt it. And if he lives, ye may have
the pleasure of knowing, young lady, that it was the tourniquet ye made
so cleverly that just saved him at the right moment.’

As Macfarlane finished dressing and tending Harry’s wound, and Harry’s
eyes began to open again, slowly and glassily, for he was very faint
with loss of blood, Nora, now that the excitement of that awful evening
was fairly over, seemed at last to realise within herself her great
loss with a sudden revulsion. Turning away passionately from Harry’s
bedside, she rushed into the next room, where the women-servants were
already gathered around their master’s body, keening and wailing
as is their wont, with strange hymns and incoherent songs, wherein
stray scraps of Hebrew psalms and Christian anthems were mingled
incongruously with weird surviving reminiscences of African fetichism,
and mystic symbols of aboriginal obeah. Fully awake now to the blow
that had fallen so suddenly upon her, Nora flung herself in fierce
despair by her father’s side, and kissed the speechless lips two or
three times over with wild remorse in her fresh agony of distress
and isolation. ‘Father, father!’ she cried aloud, in the self-same
long-drawn wail as the negresses around her, ‘they’ve killed you,
they’ve killed you! my darling—my darling!’

‘Dem kill you—dem kill you!’ echoed Rose and Nita and the other women
in their wailing sing-song. ‘But de Lard ob hebben himself avenge you.
De grabe yawnin’ wide this ebenin’ for Louis Delgado. De Lard smite
him—de Lard smite him!’

‘Get away, all you auld crones!’ the doctor said, coming in upon them
suddenly with his hearty Scotch voice, that seemed to break in too
harshly on the weird solemnity of the ghastly scene. ‘Let me see how it
was they killed your master. He’s dead, you say—stone-dead, is he? Let
me see—let me see, then.—Here you, there—lift up his head, will you,
and put it down decently on the pillow!’

Nita did as she was told, mechanically, with a reproachful glance from
her big white-fringed eyes at the too matter-of-fact and common-sense
Scotchman, and then sat down again, squatting upon the floor, moaning
and crooning piteously to herself, as decorum demanded of her under
such circumstances.

The doctor looked closely at the clotted blood that hung in ugly
tangles on the poor old man’s gray locks, and whistled a little in a
dubious undertone to himself, when he saw the great gash that ran right
across Mr Dupuy’s left shoulder. ‘An awkward cut,’ he said slowly—‘a
very severe and awkward cut, I don’t deny it. But I don’t precisely
see, myself, why it need have positively killed him. The loss of blood
needn’t have been so very excessive. He’s hacked about terribly, poor
old gentleman, with their ugly cutlasses, though hardly enough to have
done for a Dupuy, in my opinion. They’re very tough subjects indeed to
kill, all the Dupuys are.’

As he spoke, he leant down cautiously over the body, and listened for
a minute or two attentively with his ear at the heart and lips. Then
he held his finger lightly with close scrutiny before the motionless
nostrils, and shook his head once or twice in a very solemn and ominous
fashion. ‘It’s a most singular fact,’ he said with slow deliberation,
looking over at Edward, ‘and one full of important psychological
implications, that the members of every nationality I have ever had
to deal with in the whole course of my professional experience—except
only the Scottish people—have a most illogical and ridiculous habit of
jumping at conclusions without sufficient data to go upon. The man’s
not dead at all, I tell you—not a bit of it. He’s breathing still,
breathing visibly.’

Nora leapt up at the word with another sudden access of wild energy.
‘Breathing!’ she cried—‘breathing, doctor! Then he’ll live still. He’ll
get better again, will he, my darling?’

‘Now ye’re jumping at conclusions a second time most unwarrantably,’
Macfarlane answered, with true Scotch caution. ‘I will not say
positively he’ll get better again, for that’s a question that rests
entirely in the hands of the Almighty. But I do say the man’s
breathing—not a doubt of it.’

The discovery inspired them all at once with fresh hope for Mr Dupuy’s
safety. In a few minutes they had taken off his outer clothing and
dressed his wounds; while Nora sat rocking herself to and fro excitedly
in the American chair, her hands folded tight with interlacing fingers
upon her lap, and her lips trembling with convulsive jerks, as she
moaned in a low monotone to herself, between suspense and hope, after
all the successive manifold terrors of that endless evening.

By-and-by the doctor turned to her kindly and gently. ‘He’ll do,’ he
said, in his most fatherly manner. ‘Go to bed, lass, go to bed, I tell
ye. Why, ye’re bruised and beaten yourself too, pretty awkwardly!
Ye’ll need rest. Go to bed; an’ he’ll be better, we’ll hope and trust,
to-morrow morning.’

‘I won’t go to bed,’ Nora said firmly, ‘as long as I don’t know whether
he will live or not, Dr Macfarlane.’

‘Why, my lass, that’ll be a very long watch for ye, then, indeed, I
promise you, for he’ll not be well again for many a long day yet,
I’m thinking. But he’ll do, I don’t doubt, with care and nursing. Go
to bed, now, for there’ll be plenty to guard you. Mr Hawthorn and
I will stop here to-night; and there’s neighbours enough coming up
every minute to hold the place against all the niggers in the whole of
Trinidad. The country’s roused now; the constabulary’s alive; and the
governor’ll be sending up the military shortly to take care of us while
you’re sleeping. Go to bed at once, there’s a guid lassie.’

Marian took her quietly by the arm and led her away, once more half
fainting. ‘You’ll stop with me, dear?’ Nora whispered; and Marian
answered with a kiss: ‘Yes, my darling; I’ll stop with you as long as
you want me.’

‘Wait a minute,’ the good doctor called out after them. ‘Ye’ll need
something to make you sleep after all this excitement, I take it,
ladies. There’s nothing in the world so much recommended by the faculty
under these conditions as a good stiff glass of old Highland whisky
with some lime-juice and a lump of sugar in it.—Ye’ll have some whisky
in the house, no doubt, won’t you, Uncle Ezekiel?’

In a minute or two, Uncle ’Zekiel had brought the whisky and the
glasses and the fruit for the lime-juice, and Macfarlane had duly
concocted what he considered as a proper dose for the young ladies.
Edward noticed, too, that besides the whisky, the juice, and the sugar,
he poured furtively into each glass a few drops from a small phial
that he took out unperceived by all the others from his waistcoat
pocket. And as soon as the two girls had gone off together, the
doctor whispered to him confidentially, with all the air of a most
profound conspirator: ‘The poor creatures wanted a little sedative to
still their nerves, I consider, after all this unusual and upsetting
excitement, so I’ve just taken the liberty to give them each a drop or
two of morphia in their whisky, that’ll make them both sleep as sound
as a child till to-morrow morning.’

But all that night, the negroes watched and prayed loudly in
their own huts with strange devotions, and the white men and the
constables watched—with more oaths than prayers, after the white man’s
fashion—armed to the teeth around the open gate of Mr Dupuy’s front
garden.




RECENT NOTES FROM THE LAND OF EGYPT.


To those who are interested in ancient Egypt, and to the student
of Biblical archæology, the last few weeks have given treasures of
discovery. First, there was the unbinding and exposing to view of
the mummies of Ramses II. and III., and the identification of that
of Queen Nofre-tari; then the discovery, by Mr Flinders Petrie, of
‘El Kasr el Bint el Yahudî’ (the Castle of the Jew’s Daughter), which
throws a flood of light upon the few verses in Jeremiah xliii. where
we read that Johanan, the son of Kareah, followed by the captains of
the forces, the remnant of Judah, and the Hebrew princesses, daughters
of the blinded and dethroned Zedekiah, fled to Tahpanhes, the court
of Pharaoh Hophra, king of Egypt. Lastly, there was the interesting
meeting of the Egyptian Exploration Fund (see _Chambers’s Journal_,
No. 70), when an account of the finding of the Greek settlement of
Naukratis was given, and specimens of the treasures found there were
exhibited. To Professor Maspéro we are indebted for the sight of the
celebrated Pharaohs; and any one travelling in Egypt should not fail
to visit the ‘Hall of the Mummies,’ in the Boulak Museum, near Cairo,
where, in glass cases, they will see the faces of these kings exposed
to view. First of all, before describing the appearance of the dead
monarchs as they emerged from the endless folds of the mummy-cloths, it
may be worth while to glance cursorily at their history.

Ramses II.—the Sesostris of the Greeks—was the third king of the
nineteenth dynasty. He bears the name of A-naktu, the Conqueror; and in
the rolls of the papyri he is also called Ses, Sestura, ‘Sethosis—who
is called Ramses’—and Setesu. He was a great builder, and a warrior as
well. The land is filled with his buildings and with gigantic statues
of himself and his family; and the walls of the temples are covered
all over with vivid pictures of his battles and victories. Not only in
Egypt are these to be found, but also engraven upon the rock tablets
at Berytus, in Syria, are records of his victories in Asia. He does
not, however, appear to have allowed his architectural plans and his
warlike expeditions wholly to engross his attention, for we find him
dividing the land into _nomes_ or provinces, and setting governors
over them. He seems to have employed the prisoners of war in making
canals for the use of those who lived at a distance from the river. He
also rearranged the scale of rents for land, and made the canal from
the Nile to the Red Sea. In the fifth year of his reign we find him at
Kadesh-on-Orontes, a fortified Syrian town: war had broken out with
the Khita, a Semitic tribe, who had one of their strongholds there.
After a desperate struggle, Ramses appears to have been victorious, and
ratified his treaty with the conquered people by marrying their king’s
daughter. We find him afterwards waging war in Palestine; and it is
certain that he conquered Askelon. He transferred his court to Sân or
Zoan, on the Tanitic arm of the Nile, and from thenceforth Pi-Ramses
became the seat of government. By many, Ramses II. is thought to be
the Pharaoh of the oppression, for whom the children of Israel built
the treasure-cities of Pithom and Ramses. Certain it is that during
this reign the literature and language of Egypt became impregnated with
words borrowed from Semitic sources.

The chief buildings of Ramses II. are the Ramesseum or Memnonium;
a Temple of Victory at Old Qurnah, dedicated to the god Amon; the
rock-temple of Ipsamboul, dedicated to the chief gods of Egypt; the
completion of the Temple of Amon at Luxor, which was left unfinished by
Amenhotep III.; and the great hall in the Temple of Karnak. He erected
two giant statues of himself and two beautiful obelisks, one of which
is in Paris.

The king enjoyed a reign of sixty-seven years; part of which time he
was associated with his father. He must have been nearly one hundred
years old when he died; and from the temple walls at Abydos we learn
that he had sixty sons and fifty-nine daughters. This is the merest
outline of Ramses II., one of the greatest of the Egyptian kings; an
essentially successful man, bold, enterprising, ambitious, and vain.

Now for his personal appearance, in so far as we can judge of it after
its long repose in spices and linen bandages. For the sake of those
whose faith may not be very strong, let us add that the mummy was
opened by Maspéro and Brügsch—two of our greatest Egyptologists—in
presence of a large number of people, English as well as Egyptian,
who verified the official statement made by the high-priest Pinotem
on the coffin lid, and on the outer winding-sheet of the mummy, that
this was in truth the body of Ramses II. The head is long, and small
in proportion to the size of the body; the top of it is bald, but
otherwise the hair is thick. At the time of death it was probably
white; but the spices used in the embalmment have turned it a yellowish
colour. The eyebrows, too, are white and thick; the eyes small and
close together; the temples are sunken; and the nose, long, thin, and
hooked, is also depressed at the tip. The tightness of the bandaging
probably accounts for this. The chin is prominent, and the jawbone
massive, giving a look of determination to the face, which is covered
with a thin beard and moustache. The skin is of a brown hue, with black
marks on it, possibly owing to the bituminous matter used in embalming.
The hands, which are crossed over the breast, are small, and dyed with
henna; the legs and thighs fleshless; the feet long, slender, and
although somewhat flat-soled, are well shaped. They also are stained
with henna. The body is in a good state of preservation; and the
corpse, which is that of a very old man, is also that of a strongly
built and vigorous old man. The examination over, Professor Maspéro
returned the mummy to its glass case, where, with face uncovered, it
may be seen, with the mummies of Pinotem and the priest Nebsouni.

Ramses III.—surnamed Haq-On—Prince of Heliopolis, was not the immediate
successor of Ramses II., although he appears to have taken him for his
model. When he came to the throne, Egypt had degenerated to a miserable
condition, and he first turned his attention to the internal affairs of
the kingdom, rearranging the different castes and fixing their lines
very firmly. He also started a navy, to trade with the countries near
to Egypt. Many of the trees and shrubs in the valley of the Nile were
planted by him, to encourage moisture in the atmosphere and give shade
to the people. His buildings were not nearly so grand or so numerous
as those of Ramses II. He erected several Ramessea and a new temple at
Thebes. He also converted the treasure-house at Medinet-Abou into a
Temple of Victory, bringing all that was most precious into it. From
some of the papyri, we find that he was to have been the victim of a
plot hatched in the harem; but it was discovered, and the conspirators
punished. Ramses III. reigned more than twenty-seven years, and had
eighteen sons and fourteen daughters, to the former of whom he gave
the names of the sons of Ramses II. In his reign, the art of inlaying
glass in alabaster was at its height.

Ramses III. was altogether an inferior man to his predecessor of the
same name, although probably more intelligent; and from the shape
of the forehead, we might judge him to have had the intellectual
capacities largely developed. But he was eaten up with vanity, and
a desire to imitate in everything Ramses II. His buildings are less
numerous than that monarch’s; in style they are far inferior, and the
construction is poor. His wars were chiefly fought close at home,
either with the neighbouring Philistines or the tribes in the frontier
of his country. This, condensed into a few sentences, is the outline
of his life. In appearance, as seen at Boulak, when the mummy was
uncased, he was a small man, much inferior in size and build to Ramses
II, although his forehead is of better proportions. No hair is visible
on either face or head; the cheek-bones are not so high, the nose not
so hooked, the chin and jaw less massive. Professor Maspéro thinks that
the eyes were larger than those of Ramses II., which were small; but
it is difficult to be certain about this, as they have been extracted,
and the lids even removed. The mouth is horribly large, and out of
proportion to the rest of the face; the lips are thin; and many of the
teeth are in a perfect state of preservation. The displaying of the
features of Ramses III. was indeed a proof of great skill and patience
on the part of the operators, for when the last coverings were removed,
the face was found to be completely hidden by a coating of bitumen,
which had to be taken away piecemeal with the utmost care. The mummy,
face uncovered, stands now in a glass case by the side of Ramses II.;
and the lid of the sarcophagus in which he was buried is in the Museum
at Cambridge.

The mummy of Queen Nofre-tari was found with those of Ramses II. and
III. in the hiding-place at Dayr-el-Bahari; but it became in such a
bad condition, and smelt so horribly, that it was necessary to get
rid of it. Accordingly, Professor Maspéro decided to open it; and by
doing so, settled a knotty historical question. Was Nofre-tari, the
popular and deeply revered queen of king Aahmes I. of the eighteenth
dynasty, a negress? On some of the monuments, she is represented with
fine hair and yellow skin; on others, with a distinctly negro type of
face. Truly, she was worshipped at Thebes under the form of Hathor, the
black goddess of Death and the nether world. Did, then, the story of
her belonging to one of the black races of mankind originate in this,
or was there real ground for depicting her with a black complexion?
The investigation of the mummy answered the question; for although, on
being opened, it began to crumble away and dissolve into black matter,
it was quite possible to ascertain that she was a woman of full age and
middle height, and that she belonged to the _white_ races of mankind.

The opening of these mummies was the last official work of Professor
Maspéro, and the description of them is gathered from his Report.
Unfortunately for all Egyptologists, he has been obliged to resign his
post of Director of the Excavations and Antiquities in Egypt.

We must now pass on from the interesting Hall of Mummies, and convey
ourselves in thought to a dismal, dreary corner of the north-eastern
Delta, where, in the neighbourhood of the mounds of Tell-el-Defenneh,
Mr Flinders Petrie has discovered the remains of the ancient palace
in which Apries Hophra gave shelter to the fugitive daughters of
Zedekiah. This ‘Castle of the Jew’s Daughter,’ as it is called by the
Arabs to-day—the ‘Pharaoh’s house in Tahpanhes’ of the Bible, was built
by Psammetichus I. Under the corners of the building, Mr Petrie has
dug out the foundation deposits, consisting of seals, small tablets,
engraved with the king’s name and royal titles, bricks, &c. It was
probably the stronghold of those Carian and Ionian mercenaries to whom
Psammetichus granted a permanent settlement at Daphnæ of Pelusium.
The building itself was square, lofty, and of massive structure. It
stands in the remains of a quadrangular courtyard, the whole covering
an area of two thousand feet in length by one thousand feet in
breadth. Originally, it must have been walled in, the great boundary
wall being fifty feet in thickness. A gate on the north side opened
towards the canal; another on the south, to the military road between
Egypt, through Palestine, into Syria. The ‘Kasr’ also possessed a
tower which has probably served at different times as an outlook,
general’s headquarters, and a royal palace. Nor can we assign one date
only to it; it has been added to at various times, and to meet the
requirements of the different owners. It is hopeless to conjecture in
how many stories it was originally built; but the main part of the
building contained sixteen square rooms on each floor, with walls, both
outside and partition, of immense strength. Now, the basements, which
are all that is left, were the offices of the royal palace, and very
interesting are the discoveries which Mr Petrie has made there. First
of all, there is the kitchen, a big room with deep recesses in the
sides, and containing a dozen or more large jars, which somehow have
managed to escape the general destruction; also two flat dishes, three
small flat iron pokers, two corn-rubbers, some weights, and a large
knife made of iron. Then there is a room which we may suppose to have
answered to the butler’s pantry, for it was evidently the room where
the wine-jars were brought to be opened; but although there was not one
amphora to be found, there were scores of lids lying scattered about,
many of them stamped with the cartouches of Psammetichus I., and Necho,
his successor. On a rubbish-heap outside were found the broken amphoræ,
some of them having the lute-shaped ‘nefer’ written on them in ink, a
mark signifying ‘good.’ There is a tiny chamber containing a sink; and
from the contents of that sink, it can only have served one purpose,
and that the scullery. Mr Petrie describes it as being ‘formed of a
large jar with the bottom knocked out, and filled with broken potsherds
placed on edge. The water ran through this, and thence into more broken
pots below, placed one in another, all bottomless, going down to the
clean sand four or five feet below.’ These sherds were literally
clogged with fish-bones and animal matter.

Some small tablets engraved with the name of Aahmes II., and a bronze
seal of Apries, were also found; and in some of the other rooms were
seen lying about several Greek vases, many of them well painted with
representations of sphinxes, dancers, chariot-races, harpies, &c.
Amongst the débris, have been picked up amulets, two rings, a sword
handle with wide curved guard, some scale-armour, beads, seals, &c.;
and several large amphoræ, quite perfect, and a great many broken ones,
although not so badly broken but that they can be mended. The once
stately building is now a heap of blackened, flame-scorched ruins,
while the ground all round it is thickly strewn with the débris of its
past treasures. It must have fallen into very revengeful hands before
even it was set on fire, for it has evidently been ruthlessly knocked
to pieces and dismantled, besides being burnt. Did the king of Babylon,
as is indicated in the book of Jeremiah, indeed spread his tent on
the hard mud pavement in the square courtyard, and after giving over
‘such as were for death to death, and such as were for captivity to
captivity, and such as were for the sword to the sword,’ commence the
work of destruction? We cannot tell: we know that he did come, and
that, according to Babylonian accounts, he conquered. The Egyptians
admit that he came, but say he was defeated. Anyway, there are three
_steles_ in the Boulak Museum inscribed with his names, titles, and
parentage, which there is every reason to believe were picked up by
the Arabs near this place. Whether Nebuchadnezzar conquered or not,
‘Pharaoh’s house at Tahpanhes’ is now but the wreck of a departed glory.

The recent meeting of the Egyptian Exploration Fund was particularly
interesting. At it, Mr Ernest Gardner gave a vivid account of
Naukratis, for the excavation of which we are indebted to Mr Petrie
and himself. Naukratis was an ancient Greek settlement in Lower
Egypt, whose site, until lately, was lost in obscurity. We know that
it contained five celebrated temples—the Pan-Hellenion, and the
temples of Zeus, Hera, Apollo, and Aphrodite; of these, four are
now discovered. During this present year, Mr Gardner has found the
cemetery of Naukratis. It is a little distance from the town itself,
and, unfortunately, cannot be wholly excavated, as there is a modern
Arab cemetery exactly over it. The part already dug out is evidently
the more modern of the two, as it only contains graves subsequent to
the sixth century B.C. From a strictly antiquarian point of view, it
is therefore the less interesting, although that date gives the most
flourishing period of the history of Naukratis. There was not one
single mummified body found; the funerals were evidently conducted
strictly after the manner of the Greeks. Coffins of tile and wood,
the latter adorned with terra-cotta ornaments, were found in the
graves; articles both of use and beauty were found buried with the
dead. In one case, alongside of the deceased lady’s jewellery, was
found her rouge-pot, still half full of rouge, and beautifully painted
on the outside. Among the many things found in the town itself is a
portrait head of the time of Berenike II., made in blue porcelain; a
fine archaic statue of Apollo as a hunter, laden with spoils; and two
very fine vases of large size. The ruins of the Temple of Aphrodite,
built upon the foundations of two earlier ones, consist of little else
than mud walls. In front of it is the altar, made of the ashes of
the victims, bound together with a mud casing. Thus, after centuries
of burial, has the excavator’s spade brought us face to face with
Naukratis, once the most flourishing Greek settlement and trading-port
in Lower Egypt.




A TALE OF TWO KNAVERIES.


IN FOUR CHAPTERS.—CHAP. I.

It was a melancholy and foggy November morning, and in its yellow gloom
that legal byway known as Southampton Buildings, Holborn, looked even
more frowzy and less respectable than usual. That, at least, was the
opinion of Mr Blackford, solicitor, who had no love for the scene of
his daily labours, as he turned into his office at the usual hour,
nodded to the clerk and the office-boy who made up his modest staff,
hung up his hat and coat on their particular peg, and passing into his
private room, proceeded to open and read the half-dozen letters which
lay on his desk. With one exception, these were not of a pleasing or
cheerful nature. There was, in the first place, a rather peremptory
reminder that the office rent was overdue, and must be paid forthwith.
Then came a refusal to ‘settle,’ by the payment of a sum of money, a
doubtful compensation-for-injuries action against a Railway Company,
which Mr Blackford had undertaken upon the very sporting principle of
charging nothing unless he should succeed; in which happy event he
would retain half the spoils. Beneath this lay a letter declining to
make an advance on certain dilapidated house-property belonging to a
client, and commenting sharply on certain alleged misrepresentations;
and then followed two or three more such epistolary missives.

Mr Blackford’s face wore a very excusable expression of disgust as he
took up the last of the pile; but he brightened a little as he read
it through. This at anyrate meant ‘business’—above all, business for
which the payment, though not large or ungrudgingly rendered, would be
certain and prompt. It was signed ‘William Franklin,’ and it contained
a request that Mr Blackford would call on the writer that day, in
order to take instructions for his will. Now, William Franklin was
the lawyer’s best client; a retired tradesman of some wealth, and of
a litigious disposition which had for several years brought as much
profit to the business as all the rest of the connection put together.
The solicitor hastily replied to such of his correspondents as required
that attention, glanced at his diary, which showed him plenty of
leisure time for the day—a far too usual circumstance with him; and
was preparing to keep Mr Franklin’s appointment, when his office-boy
knocked and entered.

‘A gentleman to see you, sir.’

‘Who is it?’ asked his master, rather suspiciously. Unexpected male
visitors are not always welcome to a man whose finances are shaky.

‘Won’t give his name, sir—says he wants to see you on particular
business. I think it’s a new client, sir,’ added the boy
confidentially, understanding tolerably well the reasons of his
employer’s hesitation.

‘Oh! Well—show him in; and don’t forget to hand a chair.’

The visitor entered—a tall, dark, powerful man, with remarkably bright
eyes—well dressed, as Mr Blackford, drawing comfortable auguries
therefrom, at once observed.

‘Take a seat,’ said the solicitor. ‘What can I do for you?’

The stranger sat down, glanced uneasily round the room, went back to
the door, opened and closed it, and returned to his chair. ‘First of
all,’ said he, speaking with the voice and manner of a gentleman—a
voice and manner not too common among Mr Blackford’s clients—‘I must
apologise for presenting myself in this mysterious way. I didn’t give
my name to your clerk, for reasons which you will appreciate presently.
It is Willoughby—Charles Willoughby—and here is my card. I have also a
letter of introduction from my landlord, a client of yours.’

‘I wonder what he’s done?’ was Mr Blackford’s silent comment as he took
the proffered letter. ‘Forgery, perhaps, or embezzlement. The last,
most likely—if either. I daresay it’s only a trumpery County Court
matter, after all.’

The letter simply stated that Mr Willoughby had for the last month
occupied rooms in the writer’s house; that he was a very quiet lodger,
and quite the gentleman; that he seemed to have plenty of money; that
he had asked the writer to recommend a solicitor to him, and that
the writer had at once named Mr Blackford; from whom, it was added
in conclusion, a fair commission on any profits arising from the
introduction would be expected by his zealous client.

‘And what can I do for you, sir?’ once more asked the solicitor, with
the increased respect due to a man who was ‘quite the gentleman’ and
‘seemed to have plenty of money.’

The visitor fixed an anxious look on the lawyer, and replied: ‘Well,
the fact is, Mr Blackford, that I have of late been greatly worried and
annoyed.’

‘I’m sorry to hear that. Not very pleasant in this depressing weather,
is it?’

‘It is not, indeed,’ assented the other, with a spasmodic and mirthless
laugh, which began and ended in a peculiarly sudden manner.

‘What is the nature of the annoyance?’

The visitor was looking round the room in a bewildered way, and did not
seem to hear the question. On its being repeated, he came to himself
with a start.

‘The annoyance? Oh, it is just this—that I am being followed about by
people who accuse and threaten me in a most unfounded and unjustifiable
manner.’

‘And of what do they accuse you?’

‘Well, I hardly know, the accusations are so extremely vague. But
they all point to horrible crimes committed in the past, without
particularly specifying them. The threats are distinct enough: I am to
be utterly ruined by exposure and denunciation.’

‘Have you ever done anything which would be likely to give these people
a hold on you? You can be perfectly frank with me, you know; we lawyers
hear a great many curious things, but we never talk about them. Few men
can say that their lives will bear very close inspection.’

‘I declare to you solemnly that I can reproach myself with nothing
which, if known, would produce the consequences with which I am
threatened. But you know persistent slander is sure to make its mark
sooner or later; it is impossible to say what harm may have been done
already.’

‘Who are the people?’

‘I don’t know.’ Before giving this unexpected answer, Willoughby looked
down on the floor and round the room with the same lost and puzzled air
as before.

‘You don’t know who they are!’ said Mr Blackford with incredulity.
‘That’s rather strange, isn’t it?—Come, Mr Willoughby; we are quite
alone. Who are they?’

‘I can’t tell you,’ repeated the client; ‘I wish I could.’ He looked
at the lawyer with a pitiably anxious expression, and beads of
perspiration began to appear on his forehead.

‘When and where do they attack you?’

‘Incessantly and everywhere. I am never safe from them. Principally at
my lodgings, and after I am in bed at night. They keep me awake with
their outcry.’

Mr Blackford began to be puzzled. His new acquaintance continued
to regard him with the same eager and helpless look, and wiped his
forehead with a tremulous hand.

‘But—but—bless me,’ said the lawyer, ‘if they come and annoy you in
your lodgings, why don’t you give them in charge?—How many are there of
them?’

Willoughby shook his head gloomily. ‘They are too cunning for that,’
he answered. ‘They are careful to keep out of my sight. I never set
eyes on them; I only hear their voices. And they are in hundreds—in
thousands, for all I can tell.’

Mr Blackford of course at once understood the true state of the case,
and the discovery was not a pleasant one. He was by no means a nervous
man, yet he experienced an electrical sensation in the scalp of his
head at the idea that he was sitting within a yard of an athletic
madman. Clearly, it would not do to contradict so opinionated a
person as this was likely to be; he must be humoured, and induced, if
possible, to go away quietly.

‘That’s awkward—very awkward,’ said the solicitor in a reflective tone.
‘If we can’t see them, you know, how can we get at them so as to set
the law in motion?’

‘I can’t tell what to do,’ said the other despondently; ‘that is why I
have come to consult you. All I know is that they continue to denounce
and threaten me night and day, and that it cannot go on without being
noticed. In that case, my character will be materially injured, and
they will have attained their object. Besides, they are killing me, Mr
Blackford. A man can’t exist without sleep, and I have had but little
for weeks past. And now I learn that they are contriving a plan to
relieve one another at night, so as to keep me awake.’

There was something inexpressibly grim in the earnest yet
matter-of-fact way in which these impossibilities were related;
with agitation, indeed, but with nothing in the nature of abnormal
excitement or maniacal frenzy. He spoke as a man who found great matter
for trouble, but none for astonishment, in the nightly irruption into
his lodgings of hundreds or thousands of abusive persons, whose numbers
were no hindrance to their remaining effectually concealed in the
space of two small rooms. But he surveyed the walls and floor at more
frequent intervals in his dazed manner, as though he suddenly found
himself in a strange place, while his moist and shaking hands nervously
and convulsively worked his handkerchief into a compact ball.

Actuated at first by the best motives, Mr Blackford began to question
him cautiously as to his connections and private affairs. It seemed
that, with the exception of some distant relatives at the Cape, he was
alone in the world; nor did he appear to have any friends in England
upon whom he could rely. Having elicited the further fact that he had
an income of five hundred pounds a year, derived from funded property,
the solicitor ceased his questions and delivered himself up to
reflection, while his client anxiously awaited the voice of the oracle.

There are many members of the junior branch of the legal profession
who are of unbending uprightness and fastidious honour; there are a
few downright knaves; and there are others who stand neither on the
upper nor on the lower rungs of the moral ladder, but occupy a position
somewhere about the middle. These last are equally prepared to be
honest should honesty be made easy for them, or rogues in the face of
difficulty or temptation; and among their number was Mr Blackford. He
was not altogether favourably known to his brother practitioners; but
neither could any definite charge be brought against him. He had done
things which were certainly worthy of condemnation; but he had hitherto
kept clear of any offence which would endanger his position on the
rolls. He dressed neatly, he had a good manner and a correct accent,
and he did not drink. His business was small, and not of a high class,
lying mostly among the smaller sort of tradesmen; yet he had a certain
connection, and even a few clients of means and fair position; and he
was said to understand his work. He was quite without capital, and
lived a hand-to-mouth life; and he had certain extravagant tastes of
the lower kind. Money was always scarce with him, and he was prepared
to acquire it in any way which offered, so that it was unattended with
risk; for he was quite unburdened with scruples, considering all profit
fair which could be safely gained. And he thought that in this case he
saw a chance of such profit. Willoughby had answered all his questions,
some of them bordering on impertinence, in the most open and unreserved
fashion; he was evidently disposed to place the fullest confidence in
his legal adviser, looking to him for sympathy and deliverance. Mr
Blackford felt more at his ease in thus parleying with a probably
dangerous lunatic, than a few minutes before he would have thought
possible.

The upshot of his meditations was that he concluded to abandon, at
all events for the present, his first very proper and humane purpose
of communicating with the police, and trying to induce them to deal
with the case as that of a lunatic at large, so that the poor fellow
might be properly cared for until his friends could be communicated
with. For this he substituted a different plan of action with admirable
readiness, and with an entire absence of pity or compunction. It was
clear that there was money to be made out of the man by judicious
handling; and Mr Blackford was of opinion that no one could be better
qualified to make it, or more deserving of it when made, than himself.

He accordingly advised that the threats and accusations should for
the present be treated with contempt. No doubt they were made for
the purpose of extorting money; any sign that they were producing an
effect would only cause the annoyance to be redoubled. In the meantime
he, Blackford, would use his wide experience and not inconsiderable
abilities in his client’s behalf, and had no doubt of the ultimate
success of his endeavours to discover the offenders and bring them to
justice. The poor madman, with tears in his eyes, thanked him for his
kindness and attention, declared that a load had been lifted from his
mind, and was about to withdraw, when the solicitor stopped him with an
air of having suddenly recollected something.

‘By the way,’ said he, ‘it’s hardly worth mentioning—but cases of
this nature involve considerable expense to begin with, in the way of
inquiries and so forth. It is generally the custom—— Well, to put it
plainly, I think I must ask you for a small present payment on account;
say five pounds or so.’

‘Of course, of course—certainly,’ said the other, fumbling nervously
in his pocket. ‘I am much obliged to you for mentioning it; this is
my first experience of the kind, I am happy to say. I have not quite
the sum you mention with me at this moment. Would three pounds ten be
enough for the present? and I will send the rest by post.’

‘O yes, that will do very well; only a matter of form, you know,’ said
the solicitor carelessly, but laying an eager grasp upon the coins. ‘I
hope to write to you satisfactorily before long—till then, good-bye.’

So soon as his new client had left, Mr Blackford assumed his coat and
hat and went off to keep his appointment with Mr Franklin, who lived in
Camden Town with his married niece and her husband. As the solicitor
strode rapidly along, he felt a different being from the man who, but a
short half-hour before, had been reading his letters in so despondent a
mood. The sudden and unwanted accession of business from two quarters
at once on the same day gave him a feeling of importance; and the
consciousness of the four unexpected gold coins in his pocket thrilled
through him with a comforting glow, like that of a glass of old ale on
a frosty day. Willoughby, if properly managed, might prove a small gold
mine before his madness should develop itself to an extent incompatible
with attention to legal matters; and visions arose before him of a
possible inquiry _de lunatico_, with its expensive accompaniments of
the appointment of a ‘committee’ and the administration of a nice
little estate; all to be conducted, in the not distant future, to
his great pecuniary profit, by that trustworthy and able man of law,
James Blackford. His castle-building extended to an important family
connection thence to arise; to the hiring of more commodious offices in
a better situation, necessitated by a rapidly increasing business; and
by the time that he found himself at the end of his walk, the unpaid
rent and the uncompromised compensation action had faded in a glow of
splendid possibilities.

Mr William Franklin was a tall and gaunt old man, with a red face,
on which dwelt continually a savage and sardonic smile, framed
in a bristling fringe of silvery-white hair. His character might
almost be summed up in the expressive phrase of certain of his
acquaintance—friends he had none—by whom it was predicated of him
that he was ‘an ugly customer.’ He was, in fact, an evil-tempered and
malicious bully, whose selfish and tyrannical disposition had been
fostered by an undue consciousness of the twenty-five thousand pounds
which he had made in business, and by the assiduous court which his
wealth caused to be paid to him by expectant relatives, with all of
whom he took pleasure in quarrelling in turn, enjoying with a fiendish
glee their subsequent agonies of self-abasement.

‘So, it’s you at last!’ said this amiable old gentleman, when Mr
Blackford was shown into his presence. ‘Thought you were never coming.
What’s kept you?’

The solicitor, with great humility of manner, apologised for the
unavoidable delay, and alluded to the overwhelming pressure of business
and the constant calls upon his time.

‘Oh, I’m sure—I’m sorry to have put you about so,’ said Mr Franklin
with vast politeness. ‘I couldn’t think of detaining you when you’re
so busy. It’s a matter of no consequence, after all. Pray, don’t wait;
I’ll send to Jones and Crowder; I daresay _they_ won’t be too much
engaged to come at once.’

Greatly alarmed, Mr Blackford hastened to protest that his time was
entirely at Mr Franklin’s disposal.

‘Then don’t tell me a pack of lies!’ roared the client with an
instantaneous change of manner, facing round from the fireplace, poker
in hand, with every apparent intention of committing a violent assault
upon his solicitor. ‘Man alive! don’t I know that it’s just as much
as you can do to keep body and soul together in that poky little hole
of an office of yours?—_Business_, indeed! As if I wasn’t about the
only decent client you have! And why I _am_ your client, goodness only
knows. It’s compassion, I suppose. I always was too soft-hearted for
this world.’

His visitor could have furnished him with a better reason—namely, that
no other lawyer had ever been found capable of putting up with his
insolence and tyranny. But Mr Blackford had plenty of self-control, and
could bear a good deal where anything was to be got by doing so.

The soft-hearted gentleman smote the coals violently, fulminating
subdued anathemas the while with a dreadful grin. The solicitor,
knowing his man, remained perfectly quiet; and presently Mr Franklin
spoke again, abruptly, but in a quieter tone.

‘Here! I want to make my will. I’m going to do it at last—in a fashion
that will astonish some of ’em. They’ve been anxious enough about it
these ten years and more. I hope it’ll please ’em when it’s done. A set
of hungry hounds! Ready to lick the dirt off my boots for the money,
and nothing too bad to say of me behind my back. I know it as well as
if I heard it. Not a penny—not a penny for one of ’em! I’d rather take
it into my grave with me—not but what they’d grub me up again, if I was
in the middle of the earth.’

There was again a short silence. Mr Blackford awaited his instructions.

‘Then there’s this young Tom Wedlake been giving me his sauce, just
because I spoke a word to that lazy young baggage of a wife of his—said
he wasn’t going to stand it—_he_ wasn’t going to stand it—the beggar!
and if I didn’t like it, I could go. _Will_ I! I’ll stay here, just to
spite him. Besides, I’m a deal too comfortable to move. _She_ won’t let
him turn me out—the artful minx. “Dear uncle—don’t be cross with me,
dear uncle!”’ said Mr Franklin with an access of fury, and a ludicrous
assumption of a feminine falsetto. “Leave all your money to your niece,
dear uncle; that’s what you’ve got to do.” Not a brass farthing, by
Jove! He doesn’t want my money, doesn’t he? and he has the impudence to
tell me so! Very good, Mr Thomas Wedlake; I’ll take you at your word.
I’ll pay you out, you—you—rapscallion!’

The furious monologue seemed to have spun itself out; so Mr Blackford
ventured a word.

‘Then I gather, sir, that you do not intend to leave any portion
of your property to your nephew and niece—and I have no doubt you
are exercising a sound discretion, as always. But as you are justly
offended with your other relations, what disposition do you think of
making?’

‘Mind your own business!’ was the unexpected retort.

Mr Blackford felt rather aggrieved, as the matter _was_ clearly
his business; but he said nothing. The old man continued his jerky
discourse, addressed more to himself than to his visitor.

‘You’re right, though.—What shall I do with it? I’ve been asking myself
the same question ever since I wrote to you last night; and now you’re
here, I’m no nearer the answer. It’s a deal of money, hard got, and
soon spent; and I don’t know who it’s to go to. Plaguy hard to leave
it at all. No good grumbling about that, though. I won’t give it to an
hospital, or build a church, or endow almshouses; I’ve no patience with
that sort of humbug. As if a man hadn’t been robbed enough all these
years, what with rates and what with taxes. I can’t keep the money
myself, and there’s no one to give it to—no one.’

Perhaps, through that heart, all seared and scorched with evil
passions, eaten through and through with corroding suspicion, there
darted a momentary pang at the thought that there was not a human being
from whom the gift of all his painfully acquired wealth would buy one
tear of sorrow, or even one grateful remembrance of the giver.

He sat brooding with a gloomy brow; and this time the silence was so
long that Mr Blackford was about to break it at the risk of another
rebuke, when Mr Franklin smote his hand upon his thigh and laughed—a
harsh and cackling laugh, devoid of mirth or geniality.

‘Blackford,’ said he, ‘I’ll leave it to you!’

Had the lawyer received a blow from the ready poker which stood in
the nearest corner of the fireplace, he could hardly have been more
thoroughly stunned. ‘To me!’ he managed to gasp out, after a moment’s
astounded silence.

‘I’ll leave it to you!’ repeated Mr Franklin, nodding emphatically.
‘Ain’t you willing, that you stare like a stuck pig? It’s not
because of any regard for you—don’t think it. I’ll leave it to you,
just because it will be about the worst kind of sell for ’em all I
could anyhow invent. I hate ’em—every one! and the thought of their
faces when they come to hear the will read, will be about the only
consolation I shall have for being obliged to part with it at all.
And mind you, I shall make it a condition that they do hear it read.
You are to call them all together for the purpose, and you’re not to
breathe a word beforehand of the nice little surprise in store for
’em. Every man-Jack will think he’s been “remembered”—and so he has,
I assure you! You’ll have a nice time of it with ’em, Blackford. D’ye
quail at the thought of it—eh? If so, say the word, and we’ll think of
something else.’

‘Not on my account, I beg,’ said the solicitor, recovering his senses.
‘I daresay I shall be equal to the occasion. But Mr Franklin, my _dear_
sir, how am I to thank you for such munifi’——

‘You’d better not thank me at all, if you’re wise,’ said the eccentric
testator; ‘you may sicken me like the rest, and then I shall alter my
mind. Bosh! I know you well enough. You’ll try to double the money as
soon as you get it; and you’ll either lose it all and hang yourself, or
you’ll get mixed up in some piece of rascality that will bring you to
penal servitude. You have my instructions. Go and make the will; and
bring it here to-morrow, and I’ll sign it. And look here! bring two
witnesses with you; I don’t want any one in this house to know what
I’ve been about. Here’s a list of the securities. Be off! Good-bye—get
out!’ And with this unceremonious dismissal, the interview came to an
end.

As he hurried back to his office, Mr Blackford was able at last to
realise the immensity of the good luck which had befallen him in this
extraordinary manner. Twenty-five thousand pounds, all invested in
sound Stock Exchange securities! Good-bye to the strife for bread;
to the trap-net of petty pecuniary embarrassments which meets and
deadens effort at every struggle; to the haunting care which makes hard
the nightly pillow and drives away slumber before the dawn; to the
hand-to-mouth existence, and the thousand-and-one daily degradations of
a struggling professional man. Good-bye to one and all—if Mr Franklin’s
suddenly conceived purpose would but hold until he should in good
time, the best of time, betake himself to a region where codicils are
an impossibility. But one thought was present to the lawyer’s mind
at that moment—to get the will drawn and signed with all possible
expedition; but one hope was his—that his client might thereafter make
an edifying end with as little delay as possible.




AVALANCHES.


The word avalanche carries with it a sound of terror and dismay, which
may well appal any mind. Happily, avalanches are unknown in Great
Britain; but in Switzerland they are sadly too frequent. They are known
also under other names in some parts of Italy and Germany. Avalanches
consist of large accumulations of snow, set free by some means,
descending from an elevated region to the valley. Their action is more
or less twofold: chiefly by the mass of the snow sweeping away or
overwhelming everything which comes in its course; but also, sometimes,
by so violently disturbing the air as to cause a hurricane, which in
its destructive force kills men and cattle, and tears up trees and even
houses from their solid foundations.

Avalanches have been divided into four classes. There are powdery
avalanches, in which the snow and ice break up into powder, forming
a kind of silver cloud, sparkling like quicksilver, and making a
noise like distant thunder. This kind is more dangerous by reason of
the commotion produced in the air, than by its weight or power to
overwhelm. There are what are called creeping avalanches. The mass
of snow, being disengaged, moves down a more gentle slope, as on an
inclined plane, and so is sluggish in its course. Then there is the
glacier avalanche, which consists of a large mass of ice detached
from the glacier above, which descends to the valley. This is the
least dangerous kind, and is more common in summer. Lastly, there
is the avalanche proper, which is the most dangerous of all, and
consists of vast accumulations of snow set free from above, which
increase in force as they descend, overthrowing houses, tearing up
trees, burying villages, and swallowing up forests, cattle, and human
beings. Sometimes, however, an avalanche may change its character in
its descent; as, for instance, a creeping avalanche may reach a steep
declivity, and the mass of snow falling on the sharp angles of a rock,
it may be shattered, and its mass dispersed in a cloud of powdery
snow. Cases occur sometimes in which, instead of burying the objects
with which they come in contact, they drive them into the valley, and
deposit them at a considerable distance from their original position. A
remarkable case of this kind occurred in 1806; an avalanche which fell
in the Val Calanca, transferred an entire forest to the other side of
the valley, and planted a fir-tree on the roof of the rector’s house!

An instance may be given of the effects of a powdery avalanche which
occurred in the Oberland, in the canton of Berne. It was on the 12th of
December 1808, about six o’clock, that the avalanche descended on the
village of Shärmatt, sweeping away three houses, and carrying one of
them fully three hundred yards, and some portions of it more than half
a mile. In one house two persons were smothered by the snow, and five
in the other. The third house contained six children and their uncle.
Some of the children were in bed, and the rest were sitting at a table
learning their catechism. All at once the light was put out, a thick
darkness surrounded them, they felt themselves enveloped in snow, and
whirled along they knew not whither. Presently a deep ditch stopped
the progress of the house. The uncle, soon recovering his presence of
mind, began to grope about the snow for the children. After a long
search, he found them—all alive, and not seriously injured. He took
them to a barn near by, where they were obliged to spend the remainder
of the night, some of them almost naked, though the cold was intense.
The father of the children was engaged with his cows at a shed at some
distance, and was horror-struck, when he returned to where his house
had stood, to find it gone—swallowed up, as he supposed, with the whole
of his family. But his fears were soon exchanged for joy; and the sight
of the meeting of the father and his children and brother affected the
roughest of the bystanders to tears.

On the same evening, a second avalanche fell, and was fatal to the
inhabitants of another house. The only living thing which survived was
a little dog which had taken refuge in the cellar. As soon as the ruins
of the house were removed, he jumped out of his hiding-place, barking
at the workmen.

In this case was an instance of the hurricane produced by the agitation
of the air by means of the descending cloud of powdery snow. Several
cattle-houses, with the cattle, were torn from the ground and driven
like chaff before the wind. There was also another instance of the
wonderful power of the hurricane in the case of a barn full of hay,
which was carried more than a quarter of a mile, and deposited on the
opposite side of the river in its right position, with its contents
uninjured!

It has sometimes happened that the snow has not fallen to a sufficient
thickness to crush the houses, in which event the inmates have more
chance of being saved, as the porous character of the powdered snow
allows of sufficient air to sustain respiration. This was the case
when, in 1749, the entire village of Tauetsch, in the Grisons, was
one night overwhelmed by a powdery avalanche, which descended so
noiselessly that the inhabitants were not aware of the calamity, and
wondered in the morning why the day did not break. One hundred persons
were covered in by the snow in their houses, sixty of whom were got out
unhurt.

But perhaps the most remarkable instance of imprisonment in the snow
of a descending avalanche occurred in the hamlet of Bergoletto, in the
valley of the Upper Stura, at the foot of the Alps, near the fortress
of Demonte, in Piedmont. Three persons survived an incarceration of
five weeks. It was in the winter of 1755, when the falls of snow had
been so very heavy that there was danger that its weight would break
through the roofs of the houses. On the 19th of March, therefore, some
of the people tried to avoid the danger by removing the snow from
their house-tops. Among those so engaged were a man named Roccia,
and his son, a lad of fifteen. The village clergyman was at this
time leaving his house for his church, when he saw two avalanches
descending. Calling to Roccia and his son, he returned speedily to his
own dwelling. Father and son instantly fled towards the church. They
had not run more than forty yards when the lad fell close behind his
father, who, turning round to assist his son, was seized with horror on
seeing that his own house and the houses of his neighbours were buried
beneath an enormous pile of snow. His earthly all was swallowed up—his
wife, his sister, his children, gone! The shock overcame him, and he
fainted. His son soon recovered himself, and helped his father to the
house of a friend; but he was five days before he was sufficiently
restored to make any exertions in seeking his lost ones. Thirty houses
were destroyed, and twenty-two persons were missing, among them the
clergyman who gave the alarm. The snow lay over the village to a depth
of more than forty feet, and extended its destruction some ninety yards
in length by twenty broad.

The news of the disaster brought more than three hundred men from the
neighbouring valleys. With iron rods, they sought to discover where
the houses were; and then they commenced digging vigorously; but the
depth of snow was so great (another heavy fall coming on) that they
could make little or no progress, and were compelled to desist, after
toiling for several days. No hope could they entertain of any one being
preserved alive; and as the warm winds were expected to set in in less
than a month, they resolved to wait until the mass should be partly
melted.

On the 18th of April the men returned to their sad task. Roccia was
among the most active of the workers. Though he had no hope that
he should ever see any of his dear family alive, yet he laboured
diligently, assisted by his son and a brother-in-law. After six days
they advanced so far, that by breaking through two yards of ice they
could touch the ground with a long pole. On the following day they
were joined by another brother of his wife, who had been led to come
and assist by a dream which he had, in which he saw his sister alive,
begging of him to help her. Setting to work with new vigour, the four
rescuers made their way into Roccia’s house—but it was silent and
tenantless. Thinking that those they sought might have taken refuge in
a stable which stood in a sheltered position some thirty yards from the
house, they renewed their energies in that direction. After burrowing
through the snow for some time, one of them thrust a pole through an
opening. On withdrawing it, they heard a faint voice say: ‘Help, dear
husband! help, dear brother!’ They now worked away with redoubled
industry, and soon made a considerable opening, through which one of
the brothers descended. The spot was totally dark, and he could see
no one. ‘Any one here?’ he cried. His sister answered in trembling
and broken accents: ‘It is I, dear brother. My sister-in-law and my
daughter are alive too. I have always trusted in God that He would
send me relief, and He has been graciously pleased to preserve me and
deliver me.’

Her husband and other brother also descended; and there were joy and
tears and thankfulness beyond expression.

The imprisoned women were too weak to move, and were shrunk almost to
skeletons. With great tenderness they were removed to the house of a
friend, where they were put to bed and nursed with care and affection.
The daughter recovered soonest, and the unmarried woman was able to
walk in a week or two; but Roccia’s wife, who had been in a more
cramped position than the rest, was the last to regain the use of her
limbs; and her eyes were ever afterwards affected with dimness, from
being suddenly brought out of her prison into the light of day.

We give a description of their imprisonment from the lips of Roccia’s
wife. When the dire calamity befell them, she was in the stable with
her sister. They had gone there with some rye-flour gruel for one of
the goats which, on the evening before, had brought forth two dead
kids. Roccia’s daughter and a younger son were with the women, standing
in a corner among the animals, waiting for the sound of the bell to go
to church. In the stable were a donkey, six goats, and half-a-dozen
fowls. Roccia’s wife was about to leave the stable to go to her own
house. Scarcely had she reached the stable door, when she heard the
warning voice of the minister. Looking up, she saw the descending
avalanche, and heard a sound as of another at some little distance.
She hurried back into the stable and told her sister and her children.
In a few minutes the snow descended upon the building, crashing in the
roof and part of the ceiling. To save themselves they got into the rack
and manger, the latter being under the main posts of the building, and
therefore able to bear the immense pressure. They occupied, however, a
very uncomfortable posture, crouching against the wall in a space only
a little more than a yard in breadth. They had escaped instant death,
but the more painful and lingering death by famine seemed certainly
to await them. They were oppressed with the thought of how they could
subsist under such circumstances. The children did not lose heart; they
said they had had breakfast, and could do very well until the next
morning. The aunt had a few chestnuts in her pocket; and two each of
these served for their supper, with snow-water as a beverage. In the
bakehouse near the stable was the whole produce of yesterday’s baking.
They made repeated attempts to force their way through the snow to
the bakehouse, but all in vain. There was only one resource left, and
that was the goat which had recently brought forth the two dead kids.
This supply proved invaluable. On the second day they felt the pangs
of hunger; they divided the remaining chestnuts among them, and also a
quart of goat’s milk. The third day they made another effort to get to
the bakehouse; but the weight of snow was too much for them, so they
gave up all hopes of help from that direction. They were therefore shut
up to the milk of the one goat.

To feed the goats was now one great object. Two of them were near the
manger—the one already yielding milk; and the other, being with young,
might be expected soon to do so, if they could only supply them with
food. Over the manger where they lay was a hole into the hayloft;
through this hole they pulled down the fodder into the rack; and when
they could no longer reach it, the sagacious creatures climbed upon
their shoulders and helped themselves.

At the end of the first week, the boy began to sink. He had complained
of great pain in his stomach. His mother nursed him in her lap for a
whole week, when he desired to lie his length in the manger. His hands
and lips were cold, and his respiration feeble. His mother put a little
milk to his lips, but he could not take it; and then with one tender
cry, ‘O my father in the snow! O father, father!’ he expired.

Throughout the whole of their imprisonment they were in total darkness.
For nearly three weeks the crowing of the cock enabled them to
distinguish night from day; but at the end of this term chanticleer
died, and his companions followed him one by one. They then literally
took ‘no note of time.’ The donkey and the other goats were very
restless for some time, but at length they fell a prey to hunger and
exhaustion. The milk of the first goat gradually diminished; but the
kidding of the second increased the supply, and as they killed the kid,
though with great reluctance, the supply held out until the day of
their deliverance. The poor goat became quite a solace to them, as it
was so tame as to lick their hands and face. The poor creature was ever
afterwards an object of great affection in the family.

We need only add one or two interesting facts. During their five
weeks’ imprisonment they suffered little uneasiness from hunger
after the first week. The effluvia from the dead animals were far
more disagreeable, as also the vermin which infested the place, and
the great coldness of the snow-water which trickled over them. The
constrained position was also a source of great misery. During the
whole of the time, Mrs Roccia had no sleep; but her daughter and her
sister had intervals of repose equal to their nightly rest. Their
deliverance was a matter of great thankfulness to all concerned; and
many a winter’s evening was spent in relating around their humble
hearth the sufferings, the mercies, and the deliverance of that
eventful time.




A NIGHT IN AN INDIAN HILL-FORT.


Some short time ago, I being then an insignificant member of the Army
Headquarters staff at Simla, the hill-capital of India, it became
desirable to increase the number of hill-stations for the summer
accommodation of British troops. It was thought that the Chor mountain,
the most prominent peak of which is some sixty miles from Simla, would
on its lower ridges afford suitable sites; and accordingly, a Committee
of officers was formed for the purpose of reconnoitring and making a
report. This Committee consisted of a well-known general, a major of
Engineers, and myself, a humble sub. Somewhat trying work it was to
get to the Chor, the road being of the most breakneck description,
and the monsoon rains showing symptoms of bursting for our especial
delectation. However, we trudged on manfully, climbed to the very
topmost peak of the Chor, which by our aneroid we made over twelve
thousand feet, and saw—nothing; for, by evil chance, one of the most
magnificent views in Asia was barred to us by clouds which shut out
everything except the first mile or two of the hog-backed ridges below
us. Disappointed, we descended; and that night it was arranged we
should separate and return to Simla by different routes, so as to make
the President’s report as comprehensive as possible. In the execution
of this idea, I found myself the next day at a place called Bhairogh,
whence I proceeded—on foot, for we had been obliged to send our ponies
back, owing to the state of the road—to a village called Tali. Here at
first I thought of camping, as I had come some eleven miles up hill
and down dale; but the place was so bare and I was so anxious to push
on, being short of provisions, that I suddenly determined to double my
march and make for a fort called Rajgarh, and described as being some
twelve miles farther on. Unfortunately, I was dilatory in starting; the
march, as usual, was longer than I had been led to suppose; the road
was hilly, and it was not until about nine P.M. that I found myself
peering through the darkness in the vicinity of my destined camp.

Camp, did I say? It was very soon evident that there was to be no
camp for me that evening, and, what was still more objectionable,
no supper. Slowly as I had walked, my servant with whom was all my
money, and the coolies with my tent and kit, were miles behind. It
was too late for such an unkempt ragamuffin as I undoubtedly was
to disturb the garrison, so I shortly made up my mind to bivouac
peacefully under a tree. Just outside the fort, however, and close
to the spot I had marked out for my resting-place, two natives, by
the light of a fire, were hammering some metal vessel with such
animation as to wholly preclude the possibility of sleep. To these
enthusiasts I explained that I was a sahib, and suggested they should
postpone their operations till next morning. They, naturally enough
perhaps, demurred; and I wrangled, and they continued their metallic
fantasia until I could stand it no longer. Thinking, perhaps, I could
persuade the local head-man to assist me in getting a night’s rest, I
presented myself at the gate of the fort, a square walled inclosure
of no strength, and demanded admittance. After much palavering with
the sleepy sentry, I was let in past the outer wall, but not into the
inner part; whereupon, I asked that the head-man should be sent for,
and further clamoured for a chair. Seated upon this, and curiously
scrutinised by a few promiscuous hill-folk, I waited for some five
minutes, wondering why nobody came. At last a gate in the inner wall
was thrown open, and out poured a procession, lit with torches, and
headed by an evidently high-class native in flowing white robes. After
the interchange of salaams, this individual, who subsequently turned
out to be the tehsildar (administrator of a district), said to me with
much humility: ‘Is your honour sent by the government to see if troops
can be encamped on our hills?’

I admitted the soft impeachment; whereupon the tehsildar smiled
benignly, and a succession of happy grunts and ‘It is _hes_,’ ran round
the rest of the assembly, who had grouped themselves in an admiring
circle round my chair.

‘Ah, your honour, we are made very happy by seeing you! The Deputy
Commissioner of Simla wrote to our rajah to say that you and two other
sahibs were coming; but we feared you had gone by another way.’

This was gratifying, but not to the purpose. I accordingly explained
to my friend my situation, begged him to discourage the metal-workers,
and asked that my servants when they arrived might be directed to my
whereabouts. At this, consternation reigned on every side, and the
tehsildar nearly fainted.

‘Your honour sleep under a tree!’ he gasped. ‘It is not to be thought
of. I have given orders for a banquet to be prepared for your honour;
and your sleeping-room is by this time ready. Will your honour be
pleased to come and see it?’

I followed the obsequious tehsildar, and inspected my proposed sleeping
apartment, a small room, with no outlet but the door, and literally
stuffed with carpets, quilts, and pillows, evidently collected,
hurriedly for the occasion. What pleased me most was the sight of a
bed, which I at once ordered to be brought out into a sort of inner
veranda, not wishing to be wholly suffocated. I then did justice to the
‘banquet’ as a man who had trudged some five-and-twenty miles over a
difficult country might reasonably be expected to do. The surroundings
were rather oppressive, and the civilities of my host and his
companions rather overwhelming; but I was not in a mood to be critical,
and it was with considerable self-satisfaction I eventually sought my
couch, falling asleep almost simultaneously.

The next morning, I prepared to start on another march, and again I
had an interview with the tehsildar and the rest of the garrison.
I could not help noticing that though the man was perfectly polite
and obliging, there was a change in his demeanour and in that of his
following. No more was my every movement watched with eager curiosity,
no more was my every mouthful accompanied by beaming smiles and grunts
of satisfaction. This did not distress me greatly, but I thought it
curious, and when I had said farewell and had fairly started on my
journey, I asked my servant what it all meant.

The man smiled, and explained: ‘Deputy Commissioner Sahib he write to
rajah this place and say: “Very great general and two other sahibs
coming see your country. Government want put soldiers in your country
when hot time comes. Good for you if government do this, because
government pay you well, and country getting plenty rich.” Rajah he
very pleased, and write to all his tehsildars and say: “When great
general sahib comes, you make plenty show and big dinner.” Last night
you come to fort, and it rather dark; tehsildar he not see very well,
and he think you be very great general. This morning come, he see you
not general, and he plenty sorry such big dinner make!’




WHAT GOES TO THE MAKING OF A SILK GOWN.


Visitors to the International Exhibition at Edinburgh who have watched
with wonder and admiration the deft fingers of the silk-winder as
she winds the delicate straw-coloured threads from the cocoon, may
be interested to know something of the rise and progress of the
manufacture of this, the most beautiful and costly of all our textile
fabrics.

The spinning of silk was first discovered in China, and is supposed
to have been practised there almost two thousand eight hundred years
before the birth of Christ. A Chinese empress, See-ling, a native of
India, is said to have discovered, probably by accident, that those
wonderful cocoons which the silkworm prepares for its transformation
might be pressed into the service of man in the same way as cotton and
flax are. She unravelled the delicate fibres, and found them to be
strong, though fine, and capable of being woven into a web. Prosecuting
her researches, she learned how to breed and rear the worms so as to
obtain an abundant supply of cocoons; and in this way initiated a new
industry, which the empresses who succeeded her delighted to foster.

For a long time the weaving of silk was in the hands of the court
ladies; then, by slow degrees, it passed from rank to rank, until
it became the favourite occupation of all classes of women. It was
introduced into Europe by way of Constantinople; and in 527 A.D., in
the reign of Justinian, it had become so far common that garments of
silk were the favourite wear of the Byzantine nobles. The origin and
manufacture of this beautiful fabric seem, however, to have been very
imperfectly understood, until two monks who had travelled through
India and China astonished the emperor and his court by informing
them that the shining silk garments which they admired so much owed
their existence in the first place to the labours of a small worm.
Justinian, like many crowned heads, was often in want of money, and it
occurred to him, as he listened to the travellers’ wonderful tales,
that if he could introduce the manufacture of this costly cloth into
his dominions, it would be a sure and increasing source of revenue.
Thus judging, he offered the two monks a large reward if they would
procure for him a supply of the eggs of this wonderful creature. The
monks undertook the commission; and after much difficulty, succeeded in
procuring a few ounces of the eggs of the silkworm moth. This treasure,
which they had not obtained without danger, they hid in two hollow
canes which they used as staffs. One of these precious staffs was
lost; but the other was safely presented to Justinian; and the supply
of eggs so curiously procured laid the foundation of a flourishing
silk-manufacture.

This, which was at first a close monopoly, guarded with the most
jealous care, gradually became extended to other countries, as wave
after wave of conquest swept over the Eastern Empire. One of these
conquerors, Roger, king of Sicily, in 1140 transported a whole colony
of silk-weavers, with a plentiful supply of eggs, from Constantinople
to Palermo, where, for many centuries afterwards, a great manufacture
of silk flourished. It was not until nearly a hundred years after
the Sicilian king’s invasion of Constantinople that the enterprising
citizens of Genoa and Venice succeeded in procuring a supply of the
coveted eggs, and very soon made their countries famous for the
manufacture of silk. In 1300, the velvets of Genoa were renowned
throughout Europe; but there was always an attempt, more or less, to
make the manufacture of silk a monopoly; and it was not until nearly
two hundred years after the Italian cities had become famous centres
of the silk industry, that the manufacture was introduced into France.
When it did come, it was, as in the case of Roger of Sicily, in the
train of a conqueror. Francis I., while pursuing his conquests in the
north of Italy, became aware of the wealth and importance of this
branch of industry, and succeeded, partly by bribery, partly by force,
in planting colonies of silk-weavers in Lyons, Avignon, and Tours. In
all these cities it flourished greatly in a short time, particularly in
Lyons, which speedily became one of the centres of the silk-manufacture
throughout Europe.

In England, James I. made an effort to introduce it; but, in spite
of his fostering care, it did not at first take kindly to the soil,
and, in fact, never throve until it was re-introduced by the Huguenot
refugees who were driven from France by the revocation of the Edict of
Nantes. Under their care it became for a short time very prosperous,
and England bade fair to rival either Italy or France; but the trade
was from the first a close monopoly, from which all outsiders, either
foreigners or natives, were jealously excluded. The consequence of
this was that there was no improvement; the manufacture stood still
in England, while in France it was making gigantic strides. It was in
vain that successive acts of parliament were enacted to foster and
encourage it; it continued to decline until 1824, when it was at last
freed from the swaddling bands which had so long impeded all free
growth and progress. It has, however, been found impossible to recover
as yet our lost ground, and the great proportion of the silk used in
this country still comes from France. In the year 1877, our import
of silk amounted to £12,631,822, of which by far the greater amount
came from France. France, indeed, at this moment far surpasses, in the
production of silk, any other country in the world, the annual value of
this manufacture being about thirty millions. Many causes have been at
work in France to produce this result, one of which is undoubtedly the
attention paid to technical education, and the extent to which it is
taken advantage of by both men and women.

There are two distinct systems under which, across the Channel, this
important manufacture is carried on. Around Lyons, the trade is in
the hands of small practical manufacturers, who have risen by dint
of industry and skill from the ranks of workmen. These men set up
in business for themselves, but not in any large way; they do not
employ many hands, and often themselves work harder than any of their
assistants. These hands, both male and female—for women are employed
as largely as men—can and do receive instruction at a very cheap rate,
and from the best masters, at one or other of the Ecoles de Théorie of
Lyons. There the whole process and the best modes of silk manufacture
are exhaustively taught. Chemistry and the arts of colouring silk, with
the drawing and designing of patterns, are included in the lessons.
This system of small manufacturers, who board in their own families the
apprentices whom they train to their trade, was once general throughout
France; but within the last fifty years it has in many districts been
superseded by another, known as the Convent Factory system. It sprang
up first among the Jura Mountains at the small village of Jujurieux. A
native of the village, a poor lad, had worked at Lyons as an apprentice
in the establishment of one of the small master manufacturers so common
there. By dint of industry and intelligence, Jean Bonnet soon became
a master himself, and entering into contracts with important Parisian
houses, in course of time accumulated a large fortune. Returning to
his native place, he found it as he had left it, ugly, decaying, and
wretchedly poor, and resolved to raise it to prosperity. He began by
buying a large piece of ground, on which he built a number of pretty
cottages, a handsome church, and finally a large factory, in which he
resolved to employ only women. He fed, lodged, and clothed the poor
girls whom he received into his employment, paid them small wages,
and taught them the art of silk-weaving along with the rudiments of
education. At the beginning of his enterprise, he had many difficulties
to contend with; his pupils in the first instance often preferred the
rough work of the fields; but he persevered with his experiment until
he had conquered all obstacles, and made Jujurieux prosperous, and his
system a success. The girls, the native material out of which he formed
his workwomen, became, by the aid of a select body of nuns whom he
had enlisted in his service, famous throughout France for their good
conduct and respectability.

The success of this first convent factory led to the establishment of
many others, which with varying fortunes still continue to be worked
very much on the same principle. Not all were so successful as that
of Jujurieux; but many have been so to a great degree, and there are
now three large factories conducted on this principle in the south of
France. Sometimes nuns are employed as teachers, but not invariably
so; in many instances their place is taken by female superintendents
expert at the trade. These women, like the small master manufacturers,
often display the kindliest interest in those under their charge; and
if they see a girl exceptionally clever and intelligent, will make no
inconsiderable personal sacrifices to enable her to perfect herself
in the higher branches of the industry by becoming a designer of new
materials, of patterns, and combinations of colour, such as are
rigidly demanded with every successive season by the uncompromising
tyranny of Fashion.




THE GREAT SHIP-CANAL OF CORINTH.


This work, which, cutting through the Isthmus of Corinth, will be of
sufficient depth and width to allow of the passage of large vessels,
is making rapid progress, employing at present about one thousand men.
The quantity of earth to be excavated will be about twelve million
cubic feet, and of this, about two and a half millions have already
been removed. The depth of the canal is proposed to be twenty-six feet;
and the width at the surface of the water will be seventy-two feet,
except at the entrance, where it will be about three times that width.
The water is already admitted to a distance of sixteen hundred feet
into the land at each end, the depth being nearly seventeen feet. It is
confidently estimated that the canal will be accomplished in about five
years from the present time, judging by the rate at which it is being
carried on. It will be an eminently useful work when completed, and one
calculated to save much valuable time, by enabling ships to go through
the Isthmus, instead of having to sail round the Morea in order to pass
from east to west, or from west to east—a circumstance that must carry
its own importance in the commercial and maritime world.




‘NONE WILL MISS THEE.’


    Few will miss thee, Friend, when thou
      For a month in dust hast lain.
    Skilful hand, and anxious brow,
      Tongue of wisdom, busy brain—
    All thou wert shall be forgot,
    And thy place shall know thee not.

    Shadows from the bending trees
      O’er thy lowly head may pass,
    Sighs from every wandering breeze
      Stir the long, thick, churchyard grass—
    Wilt thou heed them? No: thy sleep
    Shall be dreamless, calm, and deep.

    Some sweet bird may sit and sing
      On the marble of thy tomb,
    Soon to flit on joyous wing
      From that place of death and gloom,
    On some bough to warble clear;
    But these songs thou shalt not hear.

    Some kind voice may sing thy praise,
      Passing near thy place of rest,
    Fondly talk of ‘other days’—
      But no throb within thy breast
    Shall respond to words of praise,
    Or old thoughts of ‘other days.’

    Since so fleeting is thy name,
      Talent, beauty, power, and wit,
    It were well that without shame
      Thou in God’s great book wert writ,
    There in golden words to be
    Graven for eternity.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed and Published by W. & R. CHAMBERS, 47 Paternoster Row, LONDON,
and 339 High Street, EDINBURGH.

       *       *       *       *       *

_All Rights Reserved._





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S JOURNAL OF POPULAR LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND ART, FIFTH SERIES, NO. 140, VOL. III, SEPTEMBER 4, 1886 ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


